## Getting to your web application
The first step in working with SpecBind and web applications is letting the application know where the root URL of the site is. This is done in the app.config file of the project, under an element named *application* and an attribute named _startUrl_. If you were using CodedUI as your driver, your configuration section would look something like this:

```xml
<specBind>
    <application startUrl="http://something.com/MyApplication" />
    <browserFactory provider="SpecBind.CodedUI.CodedUIBrowserFactory, SpecBind.CodedUI" browserType="IE" />
</specBind>
```

## Step Overview

One of the key features of SpecBind is it features a common set of steps that can be used to describe actions you take in validating a web application. These steps are outlined by their functionality in this guide or in the [Step Reference][Step Reference] section. One thing to note is how they work with the Gherkin language. For any _Given_ steps the step is in the past tense. This is because it assumes the action is a prerequisite and has already occurred. The _When_ and _Then_ steps are in the present tense since they are what the test indicates should occur. In this guide, both commands will be outlined so that the syntax is know, but only the present tense will be used for examples. 

## Navigation
The next step is to describe to your application how and where to navigate and how to check that they are where they think they should be. This section describes navigating directly to a page on the site as well as checking that you are on the correct page as the result of an action.

### Navigating Directly to a Page
The first step is most scenarios is to navigate to a page, similar to typing an address into the web browser. Most times this will be the home page, but you may also want to test navigation directly to a page (deep linking perhaps). To do this you would use the following step:

| Verb | Action |
|------|--------|
| Given | I navigated to the \<page name\> page |
| When, Then | I navigate to the \<page name\> page |

The \<page name\> parameter maps to the page class in code, and the navigation attribute attached to it. It then combines that with the base address of the site and commands the browser to navigate to that URL and ensures it navigates successfully. For more information on mapping pages and navigation, see [Page Navigation Binding][Page Navigation Binding]

In some cases, you may also need to provide parameters to that URL, say mimic a link generated by a URL to confirm a user's e-mail address. SpecBind support this with a similar step:

| Verb | Action |
|------|--------|
| Given | I navigated to the \<page name\> page with parameters |
| When, Then | I navigate to the \<page name\> page with parameters |

The step is followed by a table with headers and a single row. Each column indicates a parameter name to fill in and the value is what get substituted. For example, if I want to navigate to the "Confirm User" page and specify a "User ID" value of 123 and a "Confirmation Token" value of "abc123", it would look like:

```Cucumber
When I navigate to the Confirm User page with parameters
|| User ID || Confirmation Token ||
| 12 | abc123 |
```

### Checking if you are on the correct page

Similar to navigation, when you select a link or perform an action, the browser needs to know what page it is on so it can use the correct page to translate the interaction. ***This step is required any time you navigate or switch the pages without using the navigate step***. To perform the check and switch the page context use the following step:

| Verb | Action |
|------|--------|
| Given | I was on the \<page name\> page |
| Then | I am on the \<page name\> page |

The \<page name\> parameter maps to the page class in code, and the navigation attribute attached to it. It then combines that with the base address of the site and commands the browser to navigate to that URL and ensures it navigates successfully. For more information on mapping pages and navigation, see [[Page Navigation Binding]]

This may also apply to a scenario where you want to change focus to a dialog or pop-up on the screen. A similar step is available to switch the context to the dialog or pop-up screen:

| Verb | Action |
|------|--------|
| Given | I was on the \<property name\> dialog |
| Then | I am on the \<property name\> dialog |

The \<property name\> parameter maps to a property on the current page that will return the HTML element that is the root of that dialog. This is to support most modern dialog design where the dialog is a HTML element within the page.

## Waiting for the page to become active

In some scenarios, your page may have JavaScript animations or some other page load that the browser otherwise considers ready. In this case you may want to introduce an artificial delay to wait for that transition to complete. The follow step assists with this, and will wait for an active flag from the page.

| Verb | Action |
|------|--------|
| Given | I waited for the view to become active |
| When | I wait for the view to become active | 

